# blockchain corona virus track  app 
Bigtangle.net will provide the first really ambitious corona tracking app worldwide free of charge. 
Governments and health authorities around the world are working to find solutions to the COVID19 pandemic, protect people and get social life moving again. 
In a digital world, software developers are particularly challenged to contribute to the fight against the corona virus by creating digital tools. 
Bigtangle.net considers the blockchain to be the best and proven technology to create a sophisticated and working solution.
Bigtangle.net is based on voluntariness and decentralization and offers an anonymous tool to improve the security of its users in epidemic or pandemic crises.
You can download the bigtangle-wallet from the website bigtangle.net and use the app immediately.  
The new app is a companion application to bigtangle.net, which itself is a public blockchain with inherent exchange service, timely confirmation, infinite scalability, feeless, permission-free, trustless and decentralization. 
Thus, the bigtangle.net has also integrated a decentralized identity solution to give secure identities to persons, machines, algorithms and other non-human entities. This enables it to anonymously track infection paths and inform users about an infected person and their contact persons. 
The bigtangle.net uses Bluetooth technology from Google and Apple to collect data. 
In contrast to normal mobile phone tracking, the contact circle of an infected person can thus be limited to the relevant infection radius.
All security features inherent in a blockchain are taken into effect.
Public key as anonymous identifier for contact data collection
A public key generated by the user serves as an anonymous identifier for collecting contact information. Every smartphone with a bigtangle wallet sends a public address as an anonymous identifier over a short distance as part of the application technology, here Bluetooth. 
The contact data between the smartphones (Bluetooth active) of the encountering users are estimated by measuring radio signals (Bluetooth etc.) using well tested and calibrated algorithms. The app uses only the recognized public key. The public key is time-stamped and stored in the bigtangle-wallet of the users within the Bluetooth range.
Anonymity in handling authorities
If a person has tested positive, they will disclose their public key to the testing authority (e.g. doctor, hospital, laboratory, etc.). This is a common and uncritical procedure, because every doctor knows his patient. The test authority will in turn forward the public key received directly to a competent authority (which also works with a bigtangle wallet).
The authority will now send a coronavirus token from its inventory to the transmitted public key. This means that the infected person will remain anonymous via the app, that is, the public key that was sent. 
The bigtangle wallet has all public addresses that have been assigned a corona virus token with issue date. Every user can now periodically start a query with his app and find out whether he has encountered a positively tested user (the person remains anonymous) within a relevant period of time (e.g. the last 14 days). If this is the case, there is a risk of contact. The user concerned can voluntarily send his public key to a competent authority and receives a risk coronavirus token from that authority. The bigtangle wallet thus also has all public addresses to which a risk coronavirus token has been assigned. In this way, the official verification of a chain of infection is made possible in a completely anonymous way. 
Safety during movements in public spaces
When users now move around in public spaces, they are automatically warned via their smartphone if a positively tested user or a user with a contact risk is within Bluetooth range. This enables them to adapt their behaviour appropriately to a current dangerous situation. 
Summary
The use of the app is voluntary and free for everyone.
It is "Open Source"1 and there is no objection to it under data protection law. 
The app is data secure and the data collection anonymous.
It offers a good overview of the infection process and an appropriate response.
It is immediately available and does not tie up resources that are already limited.
It does not use any unusual hardware and is easy to use.
It is part of a larger whole and thus offers many more use cases.

1https://github.com/bigtangle/bigtangle-app
